---
title: I kind of overengineered my résumé
date: '2026-04-18'
draft: true
---

I've been working on [my résumé](/resume/) lately. I attended a webinar offered by a career advisor firm that I connected with, and I learned a little about how job seeking has changed since I last did it. Some highlights:

- Cover letters are rarely expected now (cool!)
- Every résumé you send out needs to be customized (less cool!)
- LinkedIn is the center of the jobseeker's universe

A custom résumé for each job application! Mostly this involves providing a professional summary statement at the top and filling the whole thing with keywords lifted directly from each respective job description.

A long job search could mean dozens of applications, if not more. The idea of keeping a dozen word documents, each a slightly-tweaked revision of some Ur-résumé, gave me a slight headache.

Not to mention LinkedIn expects you to input and maintain your résumé and work history in their system, so you end up with yet another copy.

What I really wanted was a single source of truth, and I wanted to do it the [POSSE](https://indieweb.org/POSSE) way. This site [is built](posts/2023-12-21-how-this-website-is-built/) using [Lume](https://lume.land/), a lovely little static site generator for Deno. I wanted:

- A single source of truth for my work history and education
- The ability to create variants of that for job applications
- Print/PDF from the browser
- JSON Resume integration
- Update LinkedIn programmatically

I was able to accomplish everything except the last one. However, I have a partial workaround.

## Source of Truth

I originally kept my work history and education details as Markdown in a `resume.md` file. Lume would then generate an HTML version. Easy.

But my new version would require a little more structure. I consolidated all of my info  partkept my work history and education details in markdown in a `resume.md` filas Lume would then generate an HTML version. Easy.

But my new version would require a little more structure. I consolidated all of my info into `src/_data/resume.yml` file. Here's a snippet:

```yml
  basics:
  name: Andy Zeigert
  label: Senior Software Engineer, UI/UX Designer, Geospatial Engineer, Cloud Infrastructure Engineer, Project Management
  email: andy@zeigert.com
  phone: "541-788-0452"
  url: https://zeigert.com
  location:
    city: Bend
    region: OR
    countryCode: US
  profiles:
    - network: Mastodon
      url: https://mastodon.social/@zeigert
    - network: GitHub
      username: ajzeigert
      url: https://github.com/ajzeigert
    - network: LinkedIn
      username: andy-zeigert
      url: https://linkedin.com/in/andy-zeigert

summary: >-
  Versatile Senior Software Engineer with 10+ years of experience building
  full-stack web applications and geospatial tools for environmental and
  engineering clients. Passionate about user satisfaction, clean code, elegent CI/CD pipelines, right-sized & secure cloud infrastructure, testing and documentation. If there's a geospatial component, even better.

work:
  - company: Freelance / Independent
    location: Bend, Oregon (remote)
    positions:
      - title: Software Engineer, Developer
        startDate: 2026-03
        highlights:
          - Contract web dev, UI/UX design, and geospatial dev
        skills:
          - JavaScript
          - React
          - Node
          - UI/UX
          - Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
          - Web Maps


```
Now in my Lume site, `resume` is available as a variable. This data is then rendered using `src/_includes/layouts/resume.vto`. This is a [Vento template](https://vento.js.org/), similar to other templates used on this site. The original `resume.md` now simply references the template, which uses the `resume` variable to build the HTML.

## Print or PDF

I used `@media print` css properties to format the content of the page to print nicely on a letter size sheet. As easy as File => Print.

## Add the JSON Resume page

The Resume JSON is generated by `src/resume.json.page.js`, which essentially translates the original yaml data into JSON. It's linked to at the bottom of the resume page, and can be used in a variety of applications.

## Variants

I can now use the Lume archetype system to create variant versions of my 
résumé:

```javascript
deno task lume new resume-variant
```

This creates a new yaml file in `src/resume-variants/`, which is parsed by `src/resume-variants.page.js` and merged with the main resume details. Several overrides are available, allowing me to customize the summary statement, add keywords, replace highlights and exclude entire sections. All variants can be accessed at `/resume/<variant-slug>`. The original `/resume/` endpoint remains the same.

## Syndication

I was unable to automatically push changes to LinkedIn because, although LinkedIn does have an API, it does not support making changes to the specific fields necessary to a completely automatic update.

In fact, it seems the ONLY way to update your work and education history on LinkedIn is by logging into their web portal and making the changes manually. It's not great, but there was still 
